# IS211_Assignment15---Final-Project-Book-Catalogue

Python Anywhere Link: http://sorainkling72.pythonanywhere.com/
Note: the JSON file is empty on Python Anywhere (I do not know why despite uploading what is stored locally), so you have to input an ISBN to get a visible result.

This is my final project submission, being a book catalogue.

Please note, that files with "test" in their filename are to be ignored as they haven't been fully tested yet and are not part of the main file, which is titled "book_catalogue.py"

This is the project description: A web application that helps a user record details about the books they own. The application allows a user to login and type in an ISBN, which will instigate a search using the Google Books API. The server will save some of the information to a JSON database, which will be used to show the user their list of books.

The login route was simple, serving as the index route. With knowledge from a previous project, I was able to code request forms from the user_login.html. The route would utilize the POST method, though, it would only accept one kind of username and password. Anything else would trigger a flash message to input only the accepted credentials and reload the index (login) page.

In order for the route templates to be readable, without interfering with the code blocks to read the JSON file, I had to follow the same principle when running the index file. First, I had to make sure the routes to render the templates were main route of that particular page. The code to execute the program would be an extension of that route instead, such as "/catalogue_dashboard" being used to render the template from its corresponding HTML, with "/catalogue_dashboard/books" to display the data being read from the JSON file. The principle is applied for the "/add_to_catalogue" route and its extension "/add_to_catalogue/isbn".

This brings me to the other matter, adding data to the JSON file, as well as create the file should one not already exist. The data received from the HTML form would be the ISBN of the book hosted on Google Books. Plus, the inputted ISBN would be added to the API link provided, and the data parsed & detected from the link would be added accordingly to the JSON file. The data would be added on the list as an array to the file with the append command, and then save it to the JSON file using json.dump. In the corresponding HTML, add_book.html, the form would correspond to the "add_to_catalogue/isbn" route and its request.form for reading the ISBN typed into the form. Although, it will only accept 10-digit or 13-digit ISBN numbers (though, some ISBNs are demonstrated to have an X instead of a number), and thus would only accept them as values. The "Submit" button would then be used to execute the "add_to_catalogue/isbn" route, adding the data of the book with its corresponding ISBN.

The delete function was a challenge, and was somewhat based on a previous assignment. the delete route would have to base itself from an already existing function from another route, in this case, it's the "catalogue_books" function in the catalogue dashboard, which loads the data from the JSON and displays it on the dashboard. The book on the dashbaord can be interacted with utilizing the delete function, which would re-read the JSON file, and then depending on the book selected to be deleted, remove its data from the JSON file with json.dump. It would then clear the file of the corresponding array and reload the table contents the remaining arrays within it.

As for the "catalogue_dashboard.html" file I had to create a table that would register and input the data from the JSON file. However, while the table head was simple (as well as inputting a blank column for a delete button to remove a selected book), the contents would have to be inputted through a script block since it's extracting data from a JSON file. It would have to be linked to the /catalogue_dashboard/books with the getJSON command, and the table rows would be appended to the "student_book_catalogue" id for the table. The rows would be filled with the values obtained from "new_book" and defined in the function "add_book_isbn." The delete button would be added into the column with the blank header and be linked to the delete route, effectively removing the book from the list when prompted.

Overall, the project code is fully functional, able to retrieve book data from Google Books APIs through ISBNs listed on the website. Then store specifically retrieved data in a JSON file, and then utilize the stored arrays of book data to display it on a catalogue dashboard in the form of a table. It also has the functionality to delete the book data whenever by selecting the delete action to the corresponding book, removing it from the JSON file.
